For my final project, I hope to work on a monster escape game that requires wits and strategy. The screen will be filled with small grids, similar to a graph paper. When the user starts the application, a grid will be given as the starting point and another will be given as the endpoint. As the user moves around the map with arrow keys, monsters known as Mike Wazowskis will intend to block the player from reaching the endpoint. These Mike Wazowskis will be trained to do their best in order to stop the player from completing the task. Along the way, obstacle blocks and player trail can be used to be a part of user's strategy.

I've already had background knowledge on making different grids and colors in Cinder from the Ideal Gas assignment. The Mino-poly assignment, although completely different, also provided me some insights into how objects move around in an application. My initial thought of making a visualization game came from a [Youtube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=msttfIHHkak&ab_channel=Cl%C3%A9mentMihailescu). From that video and from what the Youtuber managed to accomplish after, it inspired me to do something like that myself. My project will be completely different, of course. As someone who hopes to get an internship at a tech company in the future, I also think employers enjoy the strategic and escape room aspect when it comes to personal projects. This will motivate me even more when working on this project.
  
For the first week, I hope to have the application to the point where it can randomly generate a new map that works each time the application is run. That means each game should have a different starting point, ending point, obstacles, and boundaries. By the end of the first week, the user should be able to move across from the starting point to the ending point with the arrow keys. Boundaries should also prevent the user from moving to that direction. By the end of the second week, monsters should be created and they should be able to block player from reaching the end point. Testing will also be improved. By the end of the third week, monsters will get smarter and the game will add more features in order to have the player think of different strategies to move past the monsters.
  
A likely criticism of this project proposal is that its complexity isn't high. Personally, I don't think that's true because for an escape game, there are always things that can be done to improve and make it more attractive to users. Furthermore, I can apply better algorithms that can make the monsters react better and smarter. If I finish the project early, I'll hope to add a feature where the user can use their mouse as well as the arrows on the keyboard. Although I probably won't make it past this point, I can maybe add more features to the game with grids that have different functions, such as mine grids or grids that do different animations. Implementing music and sound effects will also make the application more interesting.
  
Although I'm still early into my research, an external library that I'll probably be using is 
[matplot](https://github.com/lava/matplotlib-cpp). 
